# dossier

Welcome to your new dossier project and to the internet computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with dossier, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/quickstart/quickstart-intro.html)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/developers-guide/sdk-guide.html)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/language-guide/motoko.html)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/language-guide/language-manual.html)
- [JavaScript API Reference](https://erxue-5aaaa-aaaab-qaagq-cai.raw.ic0.app)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd dossier/
dfx help
dfx config --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:8000?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

Additionally, if you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 8000.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`NODE_ENV` to `production` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.NODE_ENV` in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor

# Check your Balance

1. Find out your principal id:

```
sudo dfx identity get-principal
```

2. Save it somewhere.

3. Format and store it in a command line variable:

```
OWNER_PUBLIC_KEY="principal \"$(sudo \dfx identity get-principal )\""
```

4. Check that step 3 worked by printing it out:

```
echo $OWNER_PUBLIC_KEY
```

5. Check the owner's balance:

```
sudo dfx canister call dossier balanceOf "( $OWNER_PUBLIC_KEY )"
```

# Charge the Canister

1. Check canister ID:

```
sudo dfx canister id dossier
```

2. Save canister ID into a command line variable:

```
CANISTER_PUBLIC_KEY="principal \"$(sudo \dfx canister id dossier )\""
```

3. Check canister ID has been successfully saved:

```
echo $CANISTER_PUBLIC_KEY
```

4. Transfer half a billion tokens to the canister Principal ID:

```
sudo dfx canister call dossier transfer "($CANISTER_PUBLIC_KEY, 500_000_000_000)"
```

# Deploy the Project to the Live IC Network

1. Create and deploy canisters:

```
sudo dfx deploy --network ic
```

2. Check the live canister ID:

```
sudo dfx canister --network ic id dossier
```

3. Save the live canister ID to a command line variable:

```
LIVE_CANISTER_KEY="principal \"$(sudo \dfx canister --network ic id dossier )\""
```

4. Check that it worked:

```
echo $LIVE_CANISTER_KEY
```

5. Transfer some tokens to the live canister:

```
sudo dfx canister --network ic call dossier transfer "($LIVE_CANISTER_KEY, 500_000_000_000)"
```

6. Get live canister front-end id:

```
sudo dfx canister --network ic id dossier_assets
```

7. Copy the id from step 6 and add .raw.ic0.app to the end to form a URL.
   e.g. zdv65-7qaaa-aaaai-qibdq-cai.raw.ic0.app
